# Third Eye
Accessing the content of printed documents is a major challenge for the blind. A preliminary study with blind people reveals numerous difficulties with existing state-of-the-art technologies including problems with accuracy, portability and ubiquity. The project "ThirdEye- An aid for the visually impaired", is a method proposed to bring about a change in the lives of visually impaired people. This would provide a reading aid that would make their daily lives simpler and help them lead an independent life.

The method includes features like minimizing hardware components and utilizing time efficiently, by using programmable devices that support modifiable software.  While there are many existing solutions that assist individuals who are blind with reading printed material, none of these provide a reading experience that parallels the ease with which a sighted person can read printed material. 

The performance of the proposed method is validated through implementation, using a dedicated camera that will assist users in reading words in real time. Secondly, a mobile application that works on static images of text is developed. It will be able to process multiple words of a sentence and convert it into speech. The device will use two modules, an optical character recognition module (that recognizes the text) and a text to speech conversion module. We propose an innovative solution by integrating these two modules in an application. The application will provide an output in the form of audio, corresponding to the scanned printed documents. With the aid of this device, the visually impaired will be able to access the contents printed documents in the form of speech.
